Improve note on unsafe functions and `unsafe` blocks (#4153)
rust-lang/book: src/ch20-01-unsafe-rust.md

documentation, we understand how to use it properly, and we’ve verified that
we’re fulfilling the contract of the function.

> > Note: In earlier editions of Rust, the body of an unsafe function was treated
> > as an `unsafe` block, so you could perform any unsafe operation within it.
> > Starting with the 2024 edition, the compiler will warn you that you need to
> > use an `unsafe` block to perform unsafe operations even in the body of an
> > unsafe function. This helps to keep `unsafe` blocks as small as possible, as
> > unsafe operations may not be needed across the whole function body. For more
> > information about Rust editions, refer to [Appendix E][editions].

Reviewer: Rereading this gave me the idea to invert the ordering a bit, and I think that helps a little with the flow.

```suggestion
> Note: Starting with the 2024 Edition of Rust, the compiler will warn you that
> you need to use an `unsafe` block to perform unsafe operations even in the
> body of an unsafe function. This helps to keep `unsafe` blocks as small as
> possible, as unsafe operations may not be needed across the whole function
> body. In earlier editions, the body of an unsafe function was treated as an
> `unsafe` block, so you could perform any unsafe operation within it. For more
> information about Rust editions, refer to [Appendix E][editions].
```

Author: I think I somewhat prefer the current order. However, feel free to reuse and amend this as you like! If it helps, I can commit the reordering as well.

The way I see it is that the section is about (a) the fact that `unsafe` blocks allow you to call unsafe functions, which is otherwise disallowed and (b) introducing what unsafe functions are. (a) is mentioned above. As for (b), one aspect of unsafe functions is that they define an obligation to the caller, this is also explained above. The other aspect, that their bodies are effectively `unsafe` blocks, is in the process of being removed, and the note is about that. In its reordered version, it seems to assume that the reader already knows, or at least expects this second feature. In my opinion this breaks the link to the reader.

Reviewer: That’s reasonable, and got me thinking further on how to phrase it. Let me suggest another iteration – I cannot commit directly to the PR, but if you check the "let maintainers update this" button I'll be able to do.

Author: I think something like that manages well to avoid the expectation of the feature. However, the back-and-forth gives the note an agitation that doesn't do justice to the simple, calm style of many chapters of the book.

Is it very important to you to begin with the newer editions' behavior? I sympathize with the goal to emphasize the current state, and I'd tend to agree that even if Rust never had this feature, it would still be helpful to clarify that unsafe functions' bodies are not `unsafe` blocks, which some (but likely not all) readers might expect. But I think this comes across with sufficient immediacy in the first sentence in this PR, which then quickly gives way to discussion of the current behavior.

If so, here's a suggestion that does so:

```suggestion
> Note: To perform unsafe operations in the body of an unsafe function, you need
> to use an `unsafe` block just as within a regular function.
> 
> This was different in editions of Rust prior to 2024, where the body of an
> unsafe function was treated as an `unsafe` block. The change helps to keep
> `unsafe` blocks as small as possible, as unsafe operations may not be needed
> across the whole function body. For more information about Rust editions,
> refer to [Appendix E][editions].
```

Reviewer: It is indeed quite important that we lead with the behavior new users will see, since that’s the default experience for someone reading through the book. I like your overall direction, but I think we can go a step further: we can just say that part inline:

```markdown
To perform unsafe operations in the body of an unsafe function, you still need
to use an `unsafe` block just as within a regular function, and the compiler
will warn you if you forget. This helps to keep `unsafe` blocks as small as
possible, as unsafe operations may not be needed across the whole function body.
```

We don’t actually need to say anything about the edition-level change, just document the new default behavior. If someone is curious why they are *not* yet seeing that behavior, they can reference the edition guide etc. (This is true of *all* such changes to the book across editions!)
